Add the Building and Setup Guide for RSDKv2 Decompilation (and the images) (#9)
RSDKModding/RSDK-Modding-Wiki: docs/Guides/RSDKv2/Decompilation/Building.md

# Building the RSDKv2 Decompilation

The RSDKv2 Decompilation uses [CMake](https://cmake.org/), a versatile building system that supports many different compilers and platforms

## Read before proceeding

This guide requires basic knowledge of how to use the appropriate terminal for your OS, such as Command Prompt for Windows. If you aren't familiar with doing basic actions with terminals, such as opening one in specific directories, look up a tutorial online.

In addition, refer to these warnings depending on the platform you are compiling for:

=== "Windows"

    !!! warning
        Make sure to use Command Prompt when typing commands instead of PowerShell, as PowerShell is known to cause issues.

=== "Linux"

    !!! warning "Notice for Steam Deck users"
        Due to how SteamOS handles packages, building the decompilation on the Steam Deck is highly difficult and not recommended. Instead, consider building it on another Arch Linux device and using that build on the Steam Deck.

=== "MacOS"

    TODO

## Get the source code

> **DO NOT** download the source code ZIP archive from github, as they do not include the submodules required to build the decompilation, however this one does not use submodules, so you may disregard this warning, but still it is recommended not to download the ZIP archive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**DO NOT** download the source code ZIP archive from GitHub, as issues may occur while building with it.
```

```
git pull
```

## Getting dependencies
=== "Windows"

    [Install CMake](https://cmake.org/download/). **Make sure to enable the feature to add CMake to the system PATH during the installation.**

    To handle dependencies, you'll need to install [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) with the `Desktop development with C++` workload. If you already have Visual Studio installed, you can manage your installed workloads by opening Visual Studio Installer from the Start Menu and clicking the `Modify` button next to your Visual Studio installation.

    !!! warning
        An installation of Visual Studio with the `Desktop development with C++` workload uses around 8 GB of storage space. Make sure you have the necessary space on your drive before proceeding.

    You will also need to [set up vcpkg](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/vcpkg/get_started/get-started?pivots=shell-cmd#1---set-up-vcpkg). You only need to follow `1 - Set up vcpkg` in the guide.

    !!! tip
        It's recommended to clone vcpkg into a short path such as `C:/src` to avoid potential file path issues.

>     Run the following command in the root of the cloned repository after cloning the vcpkg repository
>     === "64-bit"
> 
>         ```
>         [vcpkg root]/vcpkg.exe install sdl2 libogg libvorbis --triplet=x64-windows-static
>         ```
> 
>     === "32-bit"
> 
>         ```
>         [vcpkg root]/vcpkg.exe install sdl2 libogg libvorbis --triplet=x86-windows-static
>         ```
> 
>     You should then add vcpkg to your enviroment variables by running the following commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Run the following command in the vcpkg repository:
    === "64-bit"

        ```
        vcpkg.exe install glew sdl2 libogg libtheora libvorbis --triplet=x64-windows-static
        ```

    === "32-bit"

        ```
        vcpkg.exe install glew sdl2 libogg libtheora libvorbis --triplet=x86-windows-static
        ```

    Then, add vcpkg to your environment variables by running the following commands in the vcpkg repository:
```

Author: You either did forget about Linux, you just didn't sleep enough, or for some reason, Linux does not need the same dependencies as Windows
I fixed what I think is your problem about forgetting Linux

Reviewer: The added glew and libtheora dependencies aren't actually needed, I just forgot to remove those after copy-pasting the commands for RSDKv3. My bad

    ```
    set VCPKG_ROOT="%CD%"
    setx VCPKG_ROOT %VCPKG_ROOT%
    ```

=== "Linux"

>     Run the following command in a tty emulator (aka Terminal) that your Desktop Enviroment came with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Run the following command in the terminal:
```

    === "pacman (Arch)"

        ```
        sudo pacman -S base-devel cmake sdl2 libogg libvorbis
        ```

    === "apt (Debian/Ubuntu)"

        ```
        sudo apt install build-essential cmake libsdl2-dev libogg-dev libvorbis-dev
        ```

    === "rpm (Fedora)"

        ```
        sudo dnf install gcc cmake SDL2-devel libogg-devel libvorbis-devel zlib-devel
        ```

    === "apk (Alpine/PostmarketOS)"

        ```
        sudo apk add build-base cmake sdl2-dev libogg-dev libvorbis-dev
        ```

    === "xbps (Void)"

        ```
        sudo xbps-install make cmake pkg-config SDL2-devel libogg-devel libvorbis-devel zlib-devel
        ```

## Compiling
=== "Windows"

    Enter the following commands in the RSDKv2 decompilation repository directory:

>     === "64-bit"
> 
>         ```
>         cmake -B build -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=[vcpkg root]/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake -DVCPKG_TARGET_TRIPLET=x64-windows-static -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=[vcpkg root]/installed/x64-windows-static/
>         cmake --build build --config release
>         ```
> 
>     === "32-bit"
> 
>         ```
>         cmake -B build -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=[vcpkg root]/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake -DVCPKG_TARGET_TRIPLET=x86-windows-static -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=[vcpkg root]/installed/x86-windows-static/
>         cmake --build build --config release
>         ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    === "64-bit"

        ```
        cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="%VCPKG_ROOT%/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake" -DVCPKG_TARGET_TRIPLET=x64-windows-static -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="%VCPKG_ROOT%/installed/x64-windows-static/"
        cmake --build build --config release
        ```

    === "32-bit"

        ```
        cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="%VCPKG_ROOT%/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake" -DVCPKG_TARGET_TRIPLET=x86-windows-static -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="%VCPKG_ROOT%/installed/x86-windows-static/" -A Win32
        cmake --build build --config release
        ```
```

    The resulting build will be located somewhere in `build/` depending on your system.

>     You can set [build flags](#build-flags) by adding `-D[flag-name]=[value]` to the end of the first command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can set [build flags](#build-flags) by adding `-D[flag-name]=[value]` to the end of the first command.
```

=== "Linux"

>     Enter the following commands in the RSDKv3 decompilation repository directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Enter the following commands in the RSDKv2 decompilation repository directory:
```

| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------- |
| **FORCE_CASE_INSENSITIVE**       | Forces case insensivity when loading files. Takes a boolean, defaults to off.                                                                                                                                       | Boolean              | `off`         |
| **RETRO_MOD_LOADER**             | Enables or disables the mod loader. Takes a boolean, defaults to on.                                                                                                                                                | Boolean              | `on`          |
| **RETRO_ORIGINAL_CODE**          | Removes any custom code. A playable game will not be built with this enabled. Takes a boolean, defaults to off.                                                                                                     | Boolean              | `off`         |

> | **RETRO_SDL_VERSION**            | Only change this if you know what you're doing. Switches between using SDL1 or SDL2. Takes an integer of either 1 or 2, defaults to 2.                                                                              | Integer              | `on`          |

Reviewer: `RETRO_SDL_VERSION`'s default value should be `2`, not `on`.

Author: Yeah, it's a mistake in my part, I did fix it though

## Troubleshooting

> If some error appears during the compilation of the decompilation, then please let us know at [our discord server](https://dc.railgun.works/retroengine), as we might be able to help you with whatever error you might have.

Reviewer: Remove this Troubleshooting section entirely.
